# How-To: Javascript vs JSON Arrays

While syntactically similar, the key differences between JavaScript arrays and JSON arrays lie in their purpose, allowed content, and strictness of rules:

## Purpose

**JavaScript Arrays:**

Used for in-program data manipulation and can hold any valid JavaScript data type, including functions, dates, and undefined. They are dynamic data structures used within the execution environment of a JavaScript program.

**JSON Arrays:**

Primarily used for data interchange between systems. They are a textual format for representing structured data and are designed to be easily parsed and generated by various programming languages.

## Allowed Content

**JavaScript Arrays:**

Can store a wide range of data types, including primitive types (strings, numbers, booleans, null, undefined), objects, other arrays, functions, and more.

**JSON Arrays:**

Have a more restricted set of allowed values. They can only contain strings, numbers, objects, arrays, booleans, or null. Functions and undefined are not permitted within a JSON array.

## Strictness of Rules

**JavaScript Arrays:**

More flexible in terms of syntax. For example, in JavaScript objects (which arrays are a type of), keys do not strictly require double quotes, and trailing commas are often allowed.

**JSON Arrays:**

Follow a stricter syntax. Keys within JSON objects (which can be elements of a JSON array) must be enclosed in double quotes, and trailing commas are generally not allowed. JSON does not support comments.

## In Essence

A JSON array is a subset of what a JavaScript array can be. All valid JSON arrays are also valid JavaScript arrays, but not all JavaScript arrays are valid JSON arrays due to the restrictions on allowed content and stricter syntax rules in JSON. When transferring data, a JavaScript array must be serialized into a JSON-compatible format using JSON.stringify() before transmission, and then parsed back into a JavaScript array using JSON.parse() upon reception.

## Stadium Lists

To learn more about using `Lists` in Stadium, check out the [How-To: Lists](https://github.com/stadium-software/howto-lists) repo

When working with Lists inside of Stadium, it often does not matter whether your List is in a JSON or a JS format. 

However, when sending data to a WebService, `Lists` **must** be in JSON format. Converting a Javascript `List` to JSON can be accomplished by using the following in the `Code` property of a `Javascript` action: 

```javascript
JSList.stringify();
```

Conversely, if a webservice returns data as a `text/plain` type, rather than as type `application/json`, you will need to parse that string using the Javascritp below for it to become JSON:

```javascript
MyString.parse();
```

However, in this case, best practice would be to rather change the `text/plain` data type on the API to be `application/json`. 
